# Directive: error_page

Defines custom error pages that will be returned by the server
when specific HTTP error codes are encountered.

|             |                                         |
| ----------- | --------------------------------------- |
| **Syntax**  | `error_page [code] [code] ... filename;`|
| **Default** | `---`                                   |
| **Context** | `server`, `location`                    |

---

## Description

The `error_page` directive allows you to specify one or more HTTP status codes
and the file path that should be returned when an error with any of these codes occurs.

When an error response is generated by the server or a handler (such as 404 Not Found,
403 Forbidden, 500 Internal Server Error, etc.), the server will look for a matching
error_page directive in the current **location** block.
If not found there, it will fall back to the **server** block level.

If no `error_page` directive matches the status code,
the server will automatically generate a default HTML or JSON error response.

---

## Notes

-  If the path starts with `/`, it is treated as an **absolute file path**.

- If the path starts with `.`, it is treated as a **relative file path** from the server’s root.

- The directive can be used in both **server** and **location** contexts;
a **location**-level directive overrides a **server**-level one.

- JSON error responses are **not affected** by this directive;
they are generated dynamically by **JsonErrorHandler**.

---

## Supported Status Codes
`400, 401, 403, 404, 405, 409, 411, 413, 415, 500, 501, 502, 503, 504`

---

## Examples

### Example 1: Custom 404 page

```nginx
server {
    listen 9191;
    root test_www;

    error_page 404 /errors/404.html;
}
```

When a missing file is requested,
the server will serve `/errors/404.html` instead of the default error page.

### Example 2: Multiple error codes

```nginx
server {
    listen 9191;
    root test_www;

    error_page 403 404 500 /error/general.html;
}
```

All three errors (403, 404, 500) will display the same static page.

### Example 3: Location-specific error page

```nginx
location /admin {
    root test_www;
    error_page 403 /errors/admin_403.html;
}
```

Here, only errors inside `/admin` requests will use `admin_403.html`,
while other errors will fall back to the server-level error page.
